                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
  IBM Corrective Service Package                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
  Date:  2020/03/18                                                             
  SDF Order#: B6139596       COER#: H40720240             PMR#:                 
                                                                                
  Customer#: FCPROD1                                                            
  Customer:                                                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
  Attention:                                                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
  Service Requested: AS/400      Severity: 1                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
  Enclosed  are  the  AS/400 Corrective Service PTFs resulting from your        
  order. These PTFs are listed in this package. In some cases, PTFs  you        
  ordered  have  been  superseded  and  the  superseding  PTFs have been        
  shipped in their place.   Requisite PTFs are  also  included  in  this        
  package.    Cumulative  Package  PTFs are not included in this list of        
  PTFs. If your order includes a Cumulative Package, see the  Cumulative        
  Package  installation  instructions for details on listing the package        
  contents.                                                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
                        AS/400 Corrective Service                               
                             Order # B6139596                                   
                                                                                
                                                                 Version        
                                                                 Release        
     PTF#      Reason PTF Listed    Status            Product    Mod Lvl        
     --------  -----------------    ---------------   -------    --------       
                                                                                
     MF66738   ORDERED              <<< Shipped >>>   5770999    V7R4M0         
     MF66739   ORDERED              <<< Shipped >>>   5770999    V7R4M0         
     MF66740   ORDERED              <<< Shipped >>>   5770999    V7R4M0         
     MF66697   ORDERED  /Users/zhulj/DownloadDirector/MF66738.24.txt            <<< Shipped >>>   5770999    V7R4M0         
     MF66667   ORDERED              <<< Shipped >>>   5770999    V7R4M0         
                                                                                
                                                                                
       5 selected fixes with 2,623 Kilo-bytes of data                           
       Total amount of data shipped is 2,779 Kilo-bytes                         
                                                                                
                             PTFs Ordered List                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
       Single PTFs Ordered:                                                     
         MF66738                                                                
         MF66739                                                                
         MF66740                                                                
         MF66697                                                                
         MF66667                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
************************************************************************        
*                                                                      *        
*  Vital PTF information:  Application of PTFs within this PTF package *        
*  may disable or render ineffective programs that use system memory   *        
*  addresses not generated by the IBM translator, including programs   *        
*  that circumvent control technology designed to limit interactive    *        
*  capacity to purchased levels.  These PTFs may be prerequisites for  *        
*  future PTFs.  By applying these PTFs you authorize and agree to the *        
*  foregoing.                                                          *        
*                                                                      *        
************************************************************************        
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
************************************************                                
* PTF PRE-INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR IBM i  *                                
************************************************                                
                                                                                
If you ordered a customized cumulative PTF package, you should refer to         
the following website for the latest cumulative PTF package                     
instructions:                                                                   
                                                                                
http://www-912.ibm.com/s_dir/sline003.nsf/sline003home                          
                                                                                
Before you install the PTFs in this package, it is critical that you            
review the cover letter of each delivered PTF that may be applicable to         
your system. This will help ensure an easy and successful installation          
process and may provide additional information on the effect of the PTF         
on your system. The commands needed for copying and printing (or                
displaying) the PTF cover letter(s) are included below.                         
                                                                                
You will need to refer to the list of delivered PTFs in the README              
directory of the first volume of the shipped media. Within these                
commands, replace "product_id" and "ptf_id" with the values from that           
list, and replace "device_name" with the name of your media device (for         
example, OPT01 for an optical device or OPTVRT01 for a virtual optical          
device).                                                                        
                                                                                
Mount the PTF media in the drive and sign on as QSECOFR before                  
proceeding.                                                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1. COPYING PTF COVER LETTERS:                                                   
                                                                                
   *  To copy all cover letters from media onto the system for PTFs that        
      are not already applied to your system, enter the following               
      command:                                                                  
                                                                                
      CPYPTFCVR DEV(device_name) LICPGM(*ALL) SELECT(*NOTAPY)                   
                                                                                
   *  To copy a specific cover letter from media onto the system, enter         
      the following command:                                                    
                                                                                
      CPYPTFCVR DEV(device_name) LICPGM(product_id) SELECT(ptf_id)              
                                                                                
2. DISPLAYING OR PRINTING PTF COVER LETTERS:                                    
                                                                                
   *  The PTF cover letters must be copied from the media first before          
      they can be displayed or printed.                                         
                                                                                
   *  To display or print cover letters for all PTFs that are currently         
      not applied on your system, enter one of the following commands:          
                                                                                
      DSPPTFCVR LICPGM(*ALL) SELECT(*NOTAPY)                                    
      DSPPTFCVR LICPGM(*ALL) SELECT(*NOTAPY) OUTPUT(*PRINT)                     
                                                                                
      Note: You can also specify CVRATR(*SPCINST) on the DSPPTFCVR              
            command to view all cover letters that have special                 
            instructions.                                                       
                                                                                
   *  To display or print a specific cover letter, enter one of the             
      following commands:                                                       
                                                                                
      DSPPTFCVR LICPGM(product_id) SELECT(ptf_id)                               
      DSPPTFCVR LICPGM(product_id) SELECT(ptf_id) OUTPUT(*PRINT)                
                                                                                
If you have any questions about the Special Instructions, contact your          
provider of software service before continuing.                                 
                                                                                
*********************************                                               
* PTF INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS *                                               
*********************************                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
To provide the easiest method of installing these PTFs, the PTF                 
Installation Instructions below default to delayed application                  
(requiring an IPL) of these PTFs. Installing the PTFs in this manner            
also ensures that all needed requisites are activated together.                 
                                                                                
You should have a current backup of your system before applying these           
PTFs. If you have backed up your system since the last time you                 
installed any PTFs, that backup is acceptable.                                  
                                                                                
There are steps in these instructions that cause the system to power            
down and IPL again. Notify all users to sign off the system before              
starting these instructions.                                                    
                                                                                
Note: Do not cancel any of the following steps once they are started.           
      Allow each step to complete normally.                                     
                                                                                
Be sure the IPL mode is set at Normal on the control panel and sign on          
using a security officer user profile such as QSECOFR.                          
                                                                                
Select the appropriate INSTALL steps below based on the format in which         
you received the PTF package.                                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
************************************                                            
* INSTALL FROM OPTICAL IMAGE FILES *                                            
************************************                                            
                                                                                
Use these steps when you ordered and received the cumulative PTF package        
electronically as optical image files:                                          
                                                                                
1. Create your image catalog and add the image files to the catalog. For        
   information on how to create an image catalog, refer to the IBM              
   Knowledge Center:                                                            
                                                                                
   http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/ssw_ibm_i_73/rzam8/               
   rzam8fixinstallimage.htm                                                     
                                                                                
     (IBM i 7.3>IBM i and related software>Maintaining and managing             
     IBM i and related software>Using software fixes>Installing                 
     fixes>Step 3: Choosing your fix installation                               
     scenario>Installing IBM i fixes from an image catalog).                    
                                                                                
2. Load the image catalog into the virtual optical device using the             
   following command:                                                           
                                                                                
   LODIMGCLG IMGCLG(ptfcatalog) DEV(OPTVRTxx) OPTION(*LOAD)                     
                                                                                
3. Type the following command:                                                  
                                                                                
   GO PTF                                                                       
                                                                                
   Press the Enter key.                                                         
                                                                                
   When the Program Temporary Fix (PTF) display is shown, do the                
   following:                                                                   
                                                                                
   a. Type an 8 (Install program temporary fix package) and press the           
      Enter key. The Install Options for Program Temporary Fixes display        
      is shown.                                                                 
                                                                                
   b. Type the name of the virtual optical device in the Device field on        
      the Install Options for Program Temporary Fixes display.                  
                                                                                
   c. Enter a Y (Yes) in the Perform automatic IPL option on the Install        
      Options for Program Temporary Fixes display. If you choose not to         
      do an automatic IPL after the PTFs have been loaded, the PTFs will        
      not be temporarily applied until after the next unattended IPL.           
                                                                                
   d. Enter a 1 in the Prompt for media field in order to install only          
      the PTFs from the media.                                                  
                                                                                
      If you have received other individual PTFs and/or PTF groups              
      electronically that you want to install at the same time, type 3          
      in the Prompt for media field.                                            
                                                                                
   e. Depending on the display shown, take appropriate action as                
      follows:                                                                  
                                                                                
      *  If the Confirm Install of Licensed Internal Code Fixes display         
         is shown, then press F10 automatically IPL. Wait for the system        
         to power down and start an IPL. When the Sign On display is            
         shown, go back to step 2 and start the installation of this PTF        
         package again. (The next time through these instructions, you          
         will not get this display.)                                            
      *  If the Confirm Automatic IPL display is shown, follow the              
         instructions on the display, and then go to step 3f.                   
      *  Otherwise, go to step 3f.                                              
                                                                                
   f. The display shows the licensed programs for which PTFs are being          
      loaded. All volumes that are loaded in the image catalog are              
      automatically processed.                                                  
                                                                                
4. Continue with the COMPLETE THE INSTALL PROCESS section.                      
                                                                                
******************************                                                  
* INSTALL FROM OPTICAL MEDIA *                                                  
******************************                                                  
                                                                                
Use these steps when you ordered and received the PTF package as                
physical optical media:                                                         
                                                                                
1. If you received PTFs on multiple PTF media volumes, enter the                
   following command before continuing with STEP 2. If you received only        
   one volume, go to STEP 2.                                                    
                                                                                
   CHGMSGQ QSYSOPR *BREAK SEV(70)                                               
                                                                                
   Press the Enter key.                                                         
                                                                                
   Note: This step ensures a break message will appear if the system            
         determines you should mount the next volume. IMPORTANT--If             
         there are no PTFs on the other volumes that are applicable to          
         your system, the system will not prompt you for the other              
         volumes.                                                               
                                                                                
2. Type the following command:                                                  
                                                                                
   GO PTF                                                                       
                                                                                
   Press the Enter key.                                                         
                                                                                
   When the Program Temporary Fix (PTF) display is shown, do the                
   following:                                                                   
                                                                                
   a. Type an 8 (Install program temporary fix package) and press the           
      Enter key. The Install Options for Program Temporary Fixes display        
      is shown.                                                                 
                                                                                
   b. Ensure the corrective service media is loaded in the appropriate          
      drive. Type the name of the drive in the Device field on the              
      Install Options for Program Temporary Fixes display.                      
                                                                                
   c. Enter a Y (Yes) in the Perform automatic IPL option on the Install        
      Options for Program Temporary Fixes display. If you choose not to         
      do an automatic IPL after the PTFs have been loaded, the PTFs will        
      not be temporarily applied until after the next unattended IPL.           
                                                                                
   d. Enter a 1 in the Prompt for media field in order to install only          
      the PTFs from the media.                                                  
                                                                                
      If you have more individual PTFs and/or PTF groups to install from        
      other media, type 2 in the Prompt for media field.                        
                                                                                
      If you have received other individual PTFs and/or PTF groups              
      electronically that you want to install at the same time, type 3          
      in the Prompt for media field.                                            
                                                                                
   e. Depending on the display shown, take appropriate action as                
      follows:                                                                  
                                                                                
      *  If the Confirm Install of Licensed Internal Code Fixes display         
         is shown, then press F10 to automatically IPL. Wait for the            
         system to power down and start an IPL. When the Sign On display        
         is shown, go back to step 1 and start the installation of this         
         PTF package again. (The next time through these instructions,          
         you will not get this display.)                                        
      *  If the Confirm Automatic IPL display is shown, follow the              
         instructions on the display, and then go to step 2f.                   
      *  Otherwise, go to step 2f.                                              
                                                                                
   f. The display shows the licensed programs for which PTFs are being          
      loaded.                                                                   
                                                                                
      1) If you received multiple PTF media volumes, then you may               
         receive a message to mount the next volume after the first             
         volume has completed loading. If you get this message, load the        
         next volume and use the G option to continue.                          
      2) After all the applicable volumes for the first PTF media have          
         been processed, and you specified a 2 or 3 in the Prompt for           
         media field, you will automatically be prompted to mount the           
         first volume of the next media set and use the G option to             
         continue.                                                              
      3) Continue mounting any additional volumes. When all your volume         
         sets have been processed, use the X option to complete the PTF         
         installation.                                                          
                                                                                
         Note: If there are volumes that contain PTFs that are not              
               applicable to your system, the system will not prompt you        
               to mount those volumes.                                          
                                                                                
3. Continue with the COMPLETE THE INSTALL PROCESS section.                      
                                                                                
********************************                                                
* COMPLETE THE INSTALL PROCESS *                                                
********************************                                                
                                                                                
Use these steps to complete the install process.                                
                                                                                
1. If the PTF install completes, continue with step 2. If the Confirm           
   IPL for Technology Refresh PTFs display is shown:                            
                                                                                
   a. Press F10 to end all jobs on the system and IPL the system.               
   b. When the Sign On display is shown, go back and start the                  
      installation of this package again. (The next time through these          
   instructions, you will not get this display.) If you are                     
      installing from optical media, start again with STEP 1 of                 
      INSTALL FROM OPTICAL MEDIA section.                                       
                                                                                
2. If you entered a Y (Yes) for the Automatic IPL option, the system            
   will be IPLed automatically.                                                 
                                                                                
3. Use the following procedure to verify the PTF package was properly           
   installed:                                                                   
                                                                                
   a. Sign on using a security officer user profile such as QSECOFR.            
   b. Type GO LICPGM on any command line.                                       
   c. Press the Enter key. The Work with Licensed Programs display is           
      shown.                                                                    
   d. Select option 50.                                                         
   e. Press the Enter key. The Install History display is shown.                
   f. Press the Enter key. The Display History Log Contents display             
      appears.                                                                  
                                                                                
      *  If the PTF package was installed successfully, you will see            
         messages indicating the applying of PTFs completed. Continue           
         with step 4.                                                           
      *  If the PTF package was not installed successfully, you will see        
         messages indicating the applying of PTFs failed. Contact your          
         provider of software service for assistance.                           
      *  If the previous IPL was abnormal, only PTFs for the Licensed           
         Internal Code will be applied (5770999). You can check if the          
         previous IPL was abnormal by typing the following command:             
                                                                                
         DSPSYSVAL SYSVAL(QABNORMSW)                                            
                                                                                
         If the IPL was abnormal and you are installing this package            
         immediately after a system install, perform the IPL again to           
         apply the remaining PTFs.                                              
                                                                                
4. You may be required to perform a server IPL to activate fixes that           
   affect the server firmware portion of the Machine Code.                      
                                                                                
   A server IPL is an IPL whereby all logical partitions on the server          
   are shut down at the same time. This allows a new level of the server        
   firmware to be activated on the server.                                      
                                                                                
   If your system is defined as the IBM i service partition and you are         
   not controlling the level of server firmware using a Hardware                
   Management Console, then you may be required to perform a server IPL         
   if any PTFs that were installed affect the server firmware portion of        
   the Machine Code.                                                            
                                                                                
   To determine if your system is operating as the service partition and        
   has PTFs that require a server IPL perform the following steps:              
                                                                                
   a. To determine if your system is the service partition and has PTFs         
      that require a server IPL perform the following steps:                    
                                                                                
      DSPFMWSTS                                                                 
                                                                                
   b. The Display Firmware Status display is shown. If the Service              
      Partition field shows No, then your system is not defined as the          
      service partition.                                                        
                                                                                
      If the Service Partition shows Yes, then your system is defined as        
      the service partition.                                                    
                                                                                
   c. If the Server IPL Required field shows YES, then a server IPL must        
      be performed to activate the changes to the server firmware.              
                                                                                
   If you are required to perform a server IPL, ensure your server IPL          
   source field shows Temporary. For information on how to perform a            
   server IPL refer to the IBM Knowledge Center:                                
                                                                                
   http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/ssw_ibm_i_73/rzam8/               
   rzam8fixinstallhmc.htm                                                       
                                                                                
     (IBM i 7.3>IBM i and related software>Maintaining and managing             
     IBM i and related software>Using software fixes>Installing                 
     fixes>Step 3: Choosing your fix installation                               
     scenario>Installing fixes on systems managed by Hardware                   
     Management Console).                                                       
                                                                                
   Note: If your server has only one partition defined, no special steps        
         need to be performed. The next IPL will activate the changes to        
         the server firmware.                                                   
                                                                                
5. After following any Special Instructions required after installation,        
   you can resume normal system operation. You should back up your              
   system again at your earliest convenience.                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
